Bread and Circuses

When ideology suffers the hardest of blows, and when the populace loses interest in all things heroic, or political, what remains to engage a society’s interest is bread and circuses. Coined by the Roman satirist Juvenal, the phrase makes a sharp reference to the way that the government of the time had distracted people from the real issues of society by giving out dole in the form of food and entertainment. 

Drawing from this background, The Bread and Circuses is an attempt to use the virtual medium to provide a platform to high school students to showcase their talent and take a stance on issues that are stirring the conscience of every society in this world. 

‘The show must go on”. When P.T Barnum said this in the 19th century, little would he have imagined the form his quote would take on during a pandemic in the 21st century! Theatre is a communal experience of being with others in a space and watching a show unfold, and this very idea is now being challenged emphatically with a pandemic of an unimaginable global scale. But theatre is resistant; it is an art form that it has existed and flourished for 3000 years (and possibly more). Theatre helps us relate to each other and make sense of the world, and has consistently adapted its form to reflect our changed realities.


As the world around us is changing in many ways, theatre, too, is discovering unknown territories and redefining how we think of the very concept of live art. As performances around the globe ceased, many artists turned to virtual platforms to practise theatre, creating an opportunity to reach out to and engage with audiences around the world.


With an aim to reach out to high school students around the globe and provide their voices a platform, Kaafila 2020 is going Online!!

We ask that the festival theme, ‘Freedom: An Artistic Quest’ be kept in mind while preparing plays. The event will be a testament to the spirit of collaboration as students come together virtually to create performances from their own spaces. We hope that different schools will come together to create performances that will push the boundaries of collaborative art online. Let this become the student communities’ endeavour to make sense of the world around us, collectively.

One-Act Play Competition: Ground Rules

Participation
1. The schools must enter with only one collaborative virtual theatrical performance which is relevant to the theme ‘Freedom: An Artistic Quest’.
2. This production could be an original devised piece or an adaptation/re-interpretation of an existing play/short story/novel that has been published.
3. All plays should be in English, Hindi or bi-lingual. However, using other languages in parts of the play, keeping the context in mind, is acceptable.
4. A production can have a maximum of 15 cast and crew members. This should include at least one student director and producer.
5. The school must fill out the registration form by September 5, 2020 to confirm its participation in this event. Upon registration, schools will be provided a link on which all their works will be uploaded. Video submissions will be accepted between September 5 and October 5. A complete and comprehensive list of cast and crew members will be required by October 5, 2020.
6. The performance should be shot with a steady frame, without moving the camera during the recording. We encourage the performance to use the body as its principal tool and not take the story forward based on the effects of the camera and post-production. 
7. No special Audio-Visual effects (CGI) may be added, but use of regular sound and lights is permitted while the performances are being recorded.

Time Limitations and Submission
1. The last date for submission of all performance videos is 23:59 hrs (IST) October 5, 2020.
2. The running time for all performances must be between 15 minutes and 20 minutes.
3. All teams must edit and render their final performances in any of the following video formats: .mp4/.mov/.wmv/.flv/.avi. The mode of sharing these files will be shared upon registration. 
4. The performances will be streamed on the Kaafila website on the festival dates, i.e., October 15, 16 and 17 (1 st half). The results will be announced on October 17 (2 nd half).
5. The link to the stream will be shared closer to the festival dates.

On the Day
1. Actual schedules will be shared closer to the date. Performances will be followed by conversations with the jury. The day is expected to conclude with the awards ceremony at 3:30 pm (IST).
2. We would encourage the teams to watch performances by the other schools as far as possible.

Judgement Criteria
1. Interpretation of theme
2. Acting choices
3. Performance design
4. Depth of content

Digital Safety
1. As we are all aware of the risks involved in putting up work online, we request all teams to respect the private nature of streaming links and strictly share them with the people they know and trust.
2. The link will be private and must not be shared on any popular social media platforms like Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, etc.
3. When accessing the stream, please use your personal device to ensure complete cyber safety.

MONOLOGUE MAESTROS


Participation
1. Schools must enter with only one virtual solo theatrical performance which is relevant to the
theme ‘Freedom: An Artistic Quest’.
2. This production should be an adaptation or a re-interpretation of an existing monologue in a
short story/play/novel that has been published.
3. All pieces should be in English, Hindi or bi-lingual. However, using other languages in parts of the
play, keeping the context in mind, is accepted.
4. A performance piece must only have one participant.
5. The participant must fill out the registration form by September 5, 2020 to confirm their
participation in this event.
6. A single participant can be a part of both Bread and Circuses and Monologue Maestros.
7. The performance should be shot with a steady frame, without moving the camera during the
recording. We encourage the performance to use the body as its principal tool and not take the
story forward with effects of the camera and post-production.
8. No special audio-visual effects can be added, but use of sound and lights is permitted while the
performances are recorded.

Time Limitations and Submission
1. The last date for submission of all solo performance videos is October 5, 2020.

2. The running time for all performance pieces must be between 2 minutes and 5 minutes.
3. All teams must edit and render their final performances in any of the following video type
formats .mp4/.mov/.wmv/.flv/.avi. The mode of sharing these files will be shared closer to the
submission dates to the participating teams.
4. The performances will be streamed on the Kaafila website on the festival&#39;s dates, i.e., October
15, 16 and 17 (1 st half). The results will be announced on October 17 (2 nd half).
5. The link to the stream will be shared closer to the festival dates.

On the Day
1. Actual schedules will be shared closer to the date. Performances will be followed by
conversations with the jury. The day is expected to conclude with the awards ceremony at 3:30
pm.
2. We would encourage the participants to watch each other’s works as much as possible.

Selection Criteria
1. Interpretation of theme
2. Acting choices
3. Performance design
4. Depth of content

Digital Safety
1. As we are all aware of the securities risks of the internet, we request all teams to respect the
private nature of streaming links and strictly share them with the people they know and trust.
2. The link will be private and must not be shared on any popular social media platforms like
Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, etc.
3. When accessing the stream, please use your personal device to ensure complete cyber security.