Concept Note – Visual arts @ KAAFILA Art Fest 2020-21

“Good art is not what it looks like, but what it does to us” – Roy Adzac

KAAFILA art festival started last year. It’s a festival which celebrates creativity in different areas of art practice like music, dance, theatre and visual arts. It is primarily a students led event. 
In the second edition of Kaafila (Arts Festival), visual arts bring a varied range of art events this year.  Visual arts student and teachers committee proposes workshops, webinars, art exhibition, art competition, online art market and demonstrational workshop. 
We all are aware of the difficult time that the entire world is going through. Nonetheless we as a team believe that nothing should stop creativity to bloom. The present generation especially the adolescents are feeling the crisis of an uncertain time zone.  This however, enforces the need to carry on with what the world is offering.  Therefore, through a humble attempt our children of the senior school are pushing the limits further by bringing a world of wonder, positivity, and desire to uplift the creative minds.  
The Overall concept of this art festival is to navigate the positives and negatives of Liberty. Under the bigger idea – FREEDOM, students have designed several events which justify the idea of choice in our day to day life.  

The idea of distinguishing between a negative and a positive liberty will be examined and defended by our students participating in the Virtual art exhibition.  This platform gives students an opportunity to showcase their art works as well as provides a vehicle to present themselves as artists in front of a bigger audience. 
The students and their art work will be selected by an established art committee (professional artists and art educators). 
Students volunteering in art exhibition are creating a unique virtual space to represent artworks from different arenas and domains in visual arts. It is an effort to create a cohesive visual presentation by combining unique ideas and different mediums together. 
Further, the students volunteering for workshops are investing their time in shaping some interesting and conversant virtual space to discover sustainable production of craft items through Bamboo craft demonstrational workshop. 
Bamboo is found abundantly in Wayanad, Kerala.  Uravu is an NGO that encourages the traditional technology and craftsmanship of the tribes (Adivasi women) in creating a whole range of products using bamboo. They include both functional and decorative products. The institute also helps in marketing these products through their sales outlets at Thrikkaipetta and near the Pookot Lake.

Our students are aiming to provide a platform to introduce this unique practice by creating a virtual platform through a demonstrational workshop by the original artists and craftsmen from Wayanad, Kerala.

The second art workshop proposed by our students is on Islamic Origami. This is a paper folding geometric pattern origami. Origami artist Ricardo Andrés Hinojosa Gonzalez from Monterrey, México will conduct this unique Islamic pattern technique. 
Artist Ricardo Andrés Hinojosa Gonzalez is interested in pattern and spatial forms. Before he took origami as a career he was active in variety of fields like Architecture & Sociology. Later he went to learn Islamic patterns. His fascination with Crystals and natural world formation helped him to focus more on Islamic patterns. With this acquired knowledge he began making 3D paper Art and kept discovering geometric & origami designs

In this session he will introduce this unique 3D paper art keeping the trajectory and the ideas behind his artworks. 


The next highlight of our event is an Online Art Market. Our students are working very hard to create a platform for craftsman and artists to sell and showcase their art works and products. This is an initiative to support the fellow artist and craftsman.  The current critical and crucial time has affected the artist and the craftsman community who mostly freelance and do not have a regular job to support their livelihood. 
Therefore, a cause like this becomes the need of the hour.
This is our student’s humble attempt to provide a platform for them to continue their creativity.
Our students will create an online interface where the artist can offer their works to the rightful consumer who appreciates their work.

The next attempt by our students is to organize two Webinars

Webinar 1 is to trace the possibility of art in public place. 
This webinar will address:
•	How art can make change through public places?
•	Can art change society? 
•	Can art influence the way we think and act as individuals, and as a society? 
•	How do artists make and create change in the world today?
•	What is Protest art? 
Activist art is about empowering individuals and communities and is generally situated in the public arena with artists working closely with a community to generate the art.

The webinar will be conducted by an esteemed art professional.


Webinar 2 - Career development in Visual Arts 
The dynamic world of art and design provides an array of career opportunities from designing floral arrangements to creating movie sets. The range of art and design careers provides opportunities for just about every creative person.
Working in art and design may seem like a wonderfully idyllic and relaxed career choice to our budding artists, where they have pure freedom to let their creative juices flow. However, it may surprise them to know that these career paths are actually a lot of hard work. So through this webinar our students are trying to provide the budding artists a platform which wills enable them to identify the carrier choices in art and design. It will also help the future artists to discover what a visual art is really about. 
This webinar will be conducted by an esteemed art professional. 


Our students have also proposed an art completion. This competition will focus on different interpretations of freedom. 
Students will ponder upon the below mentioned questions for creating their unique artworks. 
•	What is freedom?
•	How do you preserve it?
•	 How do you celebrate it?
•	Why do we need freedom?
•	What happens, if we don’t have freedom?

The Idea behind this art completion is to identify the Spirit of Freedom - “RESPECT FREEDOM FOR ALL”. Students participating may relate it to the freedom struggle in the past or recognize the freedom of current or future situations by keeping the below mentioned points in mind. 

•	Children’s freedom to pursue their dreams.
•	 Children respecting each other’s freedom without bullying.
•	Parents encouraging children’s freedom of speech and thought
•	Respecting freedom for animals


Students interested in participating will gather all the above ideas into one area of expression and create something that can become part of their artistic creation. 
Detailed rules, criteria’s, eligibility, submission details and submission deadlines will be shared with the interested participants much before time.


There are a total of seven events proposed by the visual arts students and teachers committee. 