Virtual Strings Attached 2020
Kaafila Music Competition
Concept Note
‘Music is the universal language of mankind’ It acts as a unifying force that transcends barriers such as race, caste, gender, religion. In our current situation, music has had a therapeutic role in the lives of many in helping deal with it. Our engagements, transactions and interactions have all moved to a virtual environment. To celebrate the power of music, that Shiv Nadar School Noida is hosting a virtual Inter-school music competition- ‘Virtual Strings Attached 2020’, in the categories of Solo vocals- Western, Hindustani and own composition; and Solo instrumental – Guitar, Piano/Keyboard and percussion. In addition, aligning with the theme of festival there will be non-competitive segment- ‘Songs of Freedom’ inviting performances from all the participating schools

Participants Class group: grade 9-12 
Categories:
Western vocals
Hindustani classical vocals
Instrumental – Guitar
Instrumental – Piano/Keyboard
Instrumental – Percussion
Own composition 

Rules and regulations:
Only solo entries for each category will be accepted as competition entries.
One entry cannot be a part of multiple categories.
Maximum 2 entries per category will be allowed from each participating school.
Each participating school can take part in any or all categories.
One student can participate in one category. Multiple entries from the same candidate will not be entertained.  
The performance should be in the form of a single take video in .mp4 format in wide-screen (landscape) mode without any editing/add-on effects/post production.
The following things are allowed per category:
  Western vocals:
    Candidates may choose and sing a non-original song in any western genre
    Use of backing track is allowed
    Accompaniment if done by self is allowed (on any instrument)
    Duration of entry-  4 minutes max.
  Hindustani Vocals:
    Use of electronic/acoustic/virtual tanpura and/or harmonium and/or electronic/virtual tabla is allowed
    Only one Bandish- Chota (fast) khayal in any choice raag with alaap and taan (in any taal).
    Duration of entry – 7 minutes max.
  Instrumental guitar:
    Electric/acoustic guitar may be performed with a backing track.
    Unaccompanied entries for electric/classical/acoustic guitar are allowed
    Song selection can be from any genre except Bollywood.
    Duration of entry – 5 minutes max.
  Instrumental Piano/Keyboard
    Participants may choose to play on either Piano or Keyboard (minimum 5 octave) using Piano voice.
    Participants using Keyboard are not allowed to use Auto accompaniment.
    The video recording should be done in a way that the fingers of the participants are visible.
    Duration of entry – 5 minutes max.
  Instrumental Percussion
    Participants may choose to play any percussion instrument.
    Backing tracks may be used for western percussion instruments (Drums, Cajon, Djembe etc.)
    Indian percussion instruments may use virtual Nagma/Lehera 
    Duration of entry –  5 minutes max.
  Own Composition- Vocals
    Own vocal composition can be in either Hindi or English.
    Composition should be solely participants’ own work.
    Lyrics have to be submitted a week prior to the competition.
    Participants may choose to use a backing track or self-accompanied instrument.
    Duration of entry – 4 minutes max. 


Songs of Freedom	
The Kaafila festival theme for the year 2020 is ’Freedom’. Songs of freedom is a non-competitive segment celebrating the spirit of freedom. Shiv Nadar School Noida invites all participating schools to send in video entries of songs, which are based on the theme of ‘Freedom’. These will be collated and broadcast online at a designated time during the Festival.
Following are the criteria for selection of the entries for this segment:
The theme of the song should be ‘Freedom’ 
The song can be in any genre/language from any part of the world.
The song entry should be a video in .mp4 to be submitted by the 10th of October’20
Song entries in other languages apart from Hindi/English should be accompanied by a document with either a translation of the song or a text explaining the meaning of the song.
